Add an SOW document for Beyond 09 (#23)
redhat-beyond/documents: Beyond09-SOW.md

the team and with its mentors, get to know your teammates and your mentors 
and come up with the basic idea and name for your project.  

**Technical requirements**

To be ready for the demo, your project should include the following elements:

1. A working Vagrant environment that brings up the default Django webserver
2. A basic Django application that includes a static web page showing the 
   name of your project and a short description about it
3. A GitHub repo in the Beyond organization with:
    1. A `README.md` file that introduces your project
    2. An MIT license file
    3. The contribution guide in a `CONTRIBUTING.md` file
    4. The code, as defined by other sections on this list
    
    (See below for detailed instructions about the contents of the 
   documentation files)
5. A basic GitHub workflow that executes Flake8 tests on files when there is a
   PR

Note that all these topics have been covered by the introduction exercise you
have been given.

**Work division**

Ensure that every member of your team plays an active role in preparing for
the demo, we recommend that you divide the work between you in the following way:

1. Student1: vagrant

> 2. Student2: bootstrap.sh

Author: Done.

__Note:__  Team information sharing is recommended, it will enable each
 team mate to maintain all the above aspects.

**General guidelines**

1. Spend some time planning your work, understanding the order in which things
   need to be done and the dependencies between the various tasks
2. Ask your mentor(s) to create the main project repository for you in the
   Beyond organization.
3. Create GitHub issues to track the work your team needs to do and assign them
   to the students who will do them
4. You can subdivide the tasks above into smaller issues as needed, as long as
   you document what you plan clearly
5. Use PRs to make code changes to your project, link them to the relevant
   issues
6. Make sure you assign your teammates as well as your mentors as reviewers for
   your PRs
7. The review process can take a few days - make sure you send your PRs early
   enough, so they will be merged in time for the demo
8. You will be given a template for each demo with the specific details that are
   required
9. Designate a primary speaker for your team. Other members are encouraged to
   speak as well, but if so, plan who talks on what so you can all finish within

>    the allotted time (15m).

Author: Nope. "allotted" is an actual word.

>    the allotted time (15m).

Reviewer: :bulb:

10. It is recommended to pre-record technical demos to prevent technical issues
    from disturbing your demo
11. Please make sure all your teammates can successfully use Git to clone the
    team project and Vagrant to bring up the development environment on their
    machines.

**Demo content:**

1. Team members introduction short academic & personal bio
2. Project name, idea, goals and plans work division mapped to team members  
3. Present project landing page
4. Work agreements
    * Contributing doc.
    * Meetings routines and participants list. 
    * Communications channels with team mates and mentors.

### Demo 2 (April 23rd): Data model and business logic

> The purpose of this demo is to show your application's data model and data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Demo goal, show your application's data model and data
```

manipulation logic.

Technical requirements

> 1. For each feature you're planning to add to your project should include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Each feature you're planning to add to your project should include:
```

    1. Data model classes
    2. Migration files for initializing the data model
    3. Migration files for creating test data for your DEV environment
    4. Data model functions and model manager classes for the more complex data 

>        operation you expect to do in your applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       operations you expect to do in your applications
```

    5. Tests for the data model functions and classes

2. Your bootstrap script should run the data migrations when your Vagrant VM
   starts up
3. You should have a CI job (GitHub Workflows) in GitHub that runs your tests
4. In your presentation you should:
    1. Present all design aspects of the features you're working on
       including [ERDs](https://www.lucidchart.com/pages/how-to-draw-ERD)
       and [DFDs](https://www.lucidchart.com/pages/data-flow-diagram) (data
       design and flow documents).
    2. Show your data model via the Django admin UI
    3. Present your data manipulation functions via the Django shell
    4. Show your test code and explain what you've tested
5. Please try to avoid displaying complex code or complex drawings in your
   presentation, or repeating the same ideas in different forms. Your challenge

>    it do explian the complex ideas you have about your app, how it should work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   is to explain the complex ideas you have about your app, how it should work
```

>    it do explian the complex ideas you have about your app, how it should work

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   it does explain the complex ideas you have about your app, how it should work
```

Author: fixed to "is to"

   and how it should be used in a simple way that would be understandable to

>    you audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   your audience.
```

>    you audience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   your audience.
```

**Work division**

> It is recommended that you divide the work in your team in a "vertical" way -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to divide the work among teammates in a "vertical" way -
```

> this means that each team member will have one or more project features assigned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this means that each teammate will have one or more project features assigned
```

to them, and they will be responsible for implementing all aspects of said
features including the data model, the tests, the control logic and the UI. 

> A technical way to achieve this in Django is to have each team member create 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A technical way to achieve it in Django, each team member create 
```

and maintain one or more separate Django "apps". 

> Working in this way will provide several benefits:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Working as recommended will provide several benefits:
```

1. It will allow each team member to experience all the layers of the technical
   stack
2. It can reduce the amount of Git conflicts you may encounter as you work on
   your projects because different features can live in different files.

### Performance Review (between April 24th to April 30) :

> The student team mentors will set up a personal 10-minute meeting with each of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Group's mentors will set up a personal 10-minute meeting with each of
```

the students in their team and give them feedback about their performance in the
course so far: What did they do well and where should they improve. As a student
you should take the time to think about how you perceive your own performance,
how is that different from how the mentors see it and why. Take the opportunity
to learn how to improve!

### Demo 3 (May 21st): Control logic and UI

> The purpose of this demo is to review your ability to implement the application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Demo goal, review your ability to implement the application
```

workflow and UI logic and implement automated tests for it.

**Technical Requirements**

1. Complete the implementation of one or more features of your application,
   including UI and backend logic. The features you implement should allow you
   to demonstrate your ability to:

    1. Query data from your database and present it to your users
    2. Use forms to gather user input
    3. Store or modify information in the database as a response to user input

2. Implement automated tests for the features you've completed. The tests 
   should cover all aspects of the feature's functionality including failure 
   scenarios, handling of invalid data and unauthorized access scenarios. 

> **Demo contents**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Demo content**
```

3. A demonstration of the application tests being run in GitHub actions.

### Demo 4 (June 11th): Final Project Demo

The purpose of this demo is to present your entire development process and 
should include:

1. Project background - Explain in general the motivation and the requirements.
2. Technical ideas and architecture - Explain test high-level technical 
   ideas behind your project, please try to present concepts graphically, 
   possibly by using ERD and DFD charts.
4. Demo - A video that presents your full system (UI, DB, APIs, CI)
5. Development process - share the process you made
6. Development challenges
7. What did you learn

## Division into project groups (till March 19th)

After the first 2 weeks, you'll be divided into teams - each team with 4-6 students.

Each team will have the following mentors:

* Team 1: Yftach Herzog, Yuval Vinokur, Nitzan Mordechai, Sebastian Scheinkman
* Team 2: Kobi Hakimi, Moshe Sheena, Or Mergi, Ygal Blum
* Team 3: Yariv Rachmani, Benny Rochwerger, Amos Mastbaum, Daniel Keler
* Team 4: Nati Friedman, Omer Amsalem, Noam Finkelstein, Alicia Petrunin, Galit Rosenthal

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe it will be better to move these lines to line # 30 to do it in a chronological way

Author: done

## Project ideas

> You can consider below ideas or think up your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can consider below ideas or think of your own.
```

* Dating website
* Drop shipping web store - selling other people's products on your website
* Personal password maintenance application
* Course certificate generation and distribution platform
* An online riddle or math game

Please avoid the following ideas as they have already been implemented too many

> time in the past by Beyond students:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
times in the past by Beyond students:
```

* Platform for finding part-time jobs for students.
* Platform for academic courses and grading.

> * Platform for finding/recruiting jobs/employess.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Platform for finding/recruiting jobs/employees.
```

> * Platform for finding/recruiting jobs/employess.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Platform for finding/recruiting jobs/employees.
```

> * Platform for for finding roomates or appartments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Platform for finding roommates or apartments.
```

> * Platform for for finding roomates or appartments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Platform for finding roommates or apartments.
```

* Platform for freelancers to offer their services.
* P2P Lending service

> __Note:__ The project used as a learning platform, it should not be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Note:__ The project should be used as a learning platform, it should not be
```

>  unique or amazing, it could defeat learning process and goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 unique or amazing. This could defeat learning process and goals.
```

## Syllabus (list of sessions)

| #    | Date                | Topic(s)                           | Lecturer        | Location        |
|------|---------------------|------------------------------------|-----------------|-----------------|

> |-     |Wed, Feb 19, 2023    |First challenge hand-off and student selection (30m pre-course session)|Barak Korren|Online/Remote|

Reviewer: What does it mean student selection in the context of this meeting. Are students been selected there?

Author: We talk about the selection process

> |-     |Wed, Feb 19, 2023    |First challenge hand-off and student selection (30m pre-course session)|Barak Korren|Online/Remote|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|-     |Sun, Feb 19, 2023    |First challenge hand-off and student selection (30m pre-course session)|Barak Korren|Online/Remote|
```

Author: fixed

|      |                     |Project Architecture overview       |Barak Korren     |MTA College      |
|      |                     |Second challenge hand-off           |Barak Korren     |MTA College      |
|**-** |**Fri, Mar 10, 2023**|**Second challenge submission date**|**_(Self work)_**|                 |
|2     |Sun, Mar 12, 2023    |Introduction to Python              |Barak Korren     |Online/Remote    |
|3     |Sun, Mar 19, 2023    |Databases, data model and the ORM   |Omer Amsalem     |Online/Remote    |
|      |                     |Project teams announcement          |                 |                 |
|**4** |**Sun, Mar 26, 2023**|**Demo 1: Development environment** |Barak            |Online/Remote    |
|-     |Sun, Apr 02, 2023    |_(Passover - College is closed)_    |-                |                 |
|-     |Sun, Apr 09, 2023    |_(Passover - College is closed)_    |-                |                 |
|5     |Sun, Apr 16, 2023    |Business logic and Testing          |Eddy Haas        |Online/Remote    |
|**6** |**Sun, Apr 23, 2023**|**Demo 2: Data Model and business logic**|**TBD**     |**Online/Remote**|

> |-     |**Apr 24 - Apr 30**  |**Performance review week**         |**-**            |**-**            |

Reviewer 3: Just take into account that we have:
25.4 - Yom HaZikaron
26.4 - Yom HaAtzmaut

|7     |Sun, Apr 30, 2023    |UI: Routes, Views and Templates     |Yariv Rachmani   |Online/Remote    |

> |8     |Sun, May 07, 2023    |Frontend, FE, Intro: FE tecnologies |Benny Powers     |Online/Remote    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|8     |Sun, May 07, 2023    |Frontend (FE), Intro: FE technologies |Benny Powers     |Online/Remote    |
```

|**9** |**Sun, May 21, 2023**|**Demo 3: UI and user workflow**    |**TBD**          |**Online/Remote**|
|10    |Sun, May 28, 2023    |Going to production                 |Benny Rochwerger |Online/Remote    |
|11    |Sun, Jun 04, 2023    |AMA - Ask Me Anything, Being a software engineer in the industry|_(all mentors)_|RH office|
|**12**|**Sun, Jun 11, 2023**|**Final Demo**                      | -               |**RH office**    |

## Final Grade

The grades are assigned to each student based on the following factors:

* **Engagement**
  * How engaged is the student throughout the course
  * Do they participate in the lessons and demos
  * Are they active on the Slack channels and on GitHub
  * "Does the Red Hat team know who you are?"
* **Collaboration**
  * Does the student collaborate meaningfully with their teammates and 
    mentors via the various monitored communication channels
  * Does the student create PRs that are easy to understand and review
  * Does the student participate meaningfully in the PR review process
* **Execution**
  * Are tasks done on time
  * Is work being tracked and allocated effectively within the team

>   * Does code meet the quality requirements defined by the mentors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Does the code meet the quality requirements defined by the mentors
```

  
The grade is made both of objective measures, obtained by monitoring GitHub and
Slack, and well as subjective elements, bonus scores, decided and agreed upon by 
 the mentors team, subjective elements could not affect negative scores.

## Guidelines for creating good PRs

* The aim, focus and completeness - A good PR does one thing, does it well and is
  self-contained - single responsibility principle. It does not break existing
  functionality.
* Description quality - a PR description should explain what it changes, and 
  why. It should also link to a relevant ticket that contains the user story 
  that the PR implements.

    1. If it's a frontend change it should contain also screenshots

> * Commit quality - a PR should have at least 1 commit where each one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Commit quality - each commit in a PR:
```

    1. Contains a mostly self-contained code change
    2. Has a good commit message that meets
       the [commit message guidelines](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit)
       and explains the change the commit introduces.
    3. Helps towards understanding the PR as a whole

* Overall Size

    1. A PR should not generally change more than 100-300 lines of code
    2. A PR can grow up to 600 lines if more than 50% of the change is comments,
       documentation or tests

* Code quality - The code in the PR should:

    1. Meet the project's coding guidelines (See more about coding guidelines in
       the "Project documentation" section below)
    2. Be easy to read and understand
    3. [Have relevant comments](https://itnext.io/what-makes-a-good-code-comment-5267debd2c24)

* Discussion and review

    1. A PR must be reviewed and approved by other team members

>     2. We expect to see discussion that indicated the team members understand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. We expect to see discussion that indicates the team members understand
```

* PRs without meaningful functionality such as PRs that just fix typos or move
  files (Those are sometimes necessary - but you should clearly indicate them as
  such in the PR description, and never mix new functionality or bug fixes into
  such PRs)
* PRs that break your CI
* Huge PRs with thousands of changed lines
* PRs that mix unrelated pieces of functionality
* PRs that mix refactoring and new features or bug fixes

## Guidelines for creating and managing good GitHub issues (A.K.A. tickets)

* Title

    * Must be clear, concise and accurately describe what the issue is about

* Description

    * Must include a clear explanation about the reasons for doing the work.
      Preferably in the form of a user story that clearly mentions the
      stakeholders involved and their wishes

* Acceptance criteria

    * Must be a list of measurable achievements that indicate the work in the
      issue is done

* Status Labels (Optional)

    1. Each issue can be labeled to indicate its status as:

        * Status/New - An issue that was just created, you can decide that
          unlabeled issues are considered new

>         * Status/Backlog - A issue that was discussed and accepted for work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * Status/Backlog - An issue that was discussed and accepted for work
```

        * Status/In progress - An issue that is being worked on
        * Closed - not a flag - just closing the issue in GitHub - indicates
          work on the issue is done

    2. You may define other labels as you settle on the details of your
       execution process within your team

* Progress follow-up

    1. For issues that are in progress more than one week, we expect to see at
       least weekly updates indicating the progress in performing the task
    2. For issues that get closed for reasons other than the work on them being
       done - we expect to see a comment clearly describing the reasons for
       closure

* Linked PRs

    1. GitHub can set links between issues and PRs that mention them in the PR
       description - you are expected to use that capability extensively to link
       between issues to the code changes that are made to resolve them
    2. When a PR is indicated to fix an issue - GitHub will close the issue when
       the PR is merged. We expect most issues to be closed using this automated
       mechanism.

## Guidelines for writing and maintaining project documentation

* README.md file

>     1. Serves as the landing page for your project in GitHub- should tell new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Serves as the landing page for your project in GitHub - should tell new
```

       users and contributors about your project and where to find more

>        information about to use it or contribute to it. When your project is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       information about how to use it or contribute to it. When your project is
```

       small you can have all the documentation included in the README, but as
       it grows we expect different documentation sections to move to their own
       files.

* User Guide (Optional - the famous Achilles Heel of Open Source)

    1. Documents all aspects of using the project from installation to daily
       operation. You might have different guides to different types of users -
       for example you may have an administration guide targeted at system

>        administrators and an end-user guide that is meant for simple end users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       administrators and an end-user guide that is meant for regular end users.
```

* Contribution guide - Meant to help new developers learn how to contribute to
  your project. Should include the following sections:

>     1. Development process - You process and conventions for managing tickets,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Development process - Your process and conventions for managing tickets,
```

       all Python code to conform to
       the [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008) standard, and your
       guidelines should mention that, but also expand on it for the specifics
       of your project.
    4. Getting started - How to set up a development environment to begin
       working on the project code.

* Architecture guide

    1. How to understand the project code - which major frameworks are used, the
       class structure, technical design background information and where to
       find the different kinds of files in the project

* License

    1. A License file defines copyright protections around your code and
       what users and contributors are legally allowed to do.
    2. In the open source community, developers typically pick an
       [OSI-approved](https://opensource.org/licenses) license for their  
       projects.
    3. In Beyond, the mentors will create the project repo for you with the 
       permissive [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). We require
       that you keep this license for the Beyond project in order to facilitate
       sharing with other Beyond students and the Red Hat team.

> ## System Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## System Requirements (student workstations) 
```

* Computer
* 8 GB RAM
* OS - Windows, OSX, Linux
* Language - English (Username should be in English)
* Installations:

    * [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
    * [Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
    * [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)

## List of things you can do to improve communications with your instructors and teammates and your overall "visibility"

* Set up a recognizable personal avatar (profile picture) on both GitHub and
  Slack.
* Ask for code reviews by mentioning the mentors in the PR
* Mention people with "@" in GitHub issues and PRs when you want them to comment
  or review.
* Link your college email address with your GitHub account, so we can find you by
  the address

## Buzz words

> * PR - A pull request (PR) is a method of submitting contributions to an open

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PR - A Pull Request is a method of submitting contributions to an open
```
